{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Mono;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Make a deliberate choice early in the writing process on which key findings to present in tables.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The title should reflect what is shown.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Ensure that tables are self-explanatory.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Do not repeat information from tables in the text but emphasise the important findings.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Design tables to make them clear and easy to read.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Start each table on a new page, after the reference list.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 66 (2013) 1197)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Tables are used to present complex data in a concise and organised manner.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Prepare the results and data of the study before drafting the tables.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The flow of the tables should tell a logical story.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Design, title and label the tables carefully so that they are easy to understand.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 WHEN TO PRESENT DATA IN TABLES:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Precise numerical data rather than proportions or trends.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Large numbers of related data.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Summarise information that will be clearer in a tabular form rather than in a running text.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Complex information that will be clearer in a table than in a text form or a graph.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 COMMON ERRORS:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Tables in the manuscript are not cited in the text.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Tabular data do not agree with the data given in the text.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Inaccurate arithmetic for columns (e.g. numbers do not add up).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Information in the text is duplicated in the tables.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Information in the tables is duplicated in graphs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Singapore Med J. 2009;50(2):117-8; quiz 119.)}}