{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SourceSerifPro-Regular;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SourceSerifPro-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SourceSansPro-Regular;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Introduction<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-1060\sl288\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mice and rats used in the laboratory derive from a variety of sources. Production of inbred strains means that these backgrounds can be defined and thus require nomenclature conventions. It should be borne in mind that genetic drift means that there may still be unknown genetic differences between individuals within strains.\{ | Faskowitz, et al., 2020 | | |zu:7172713:PSPCRX5H\}\{ | Di, & Biswal, and Alzheimer's Disease Neu, 2012 | | |zu:7172713:6N6V7FT8\}\{ | Dunlop, 1994 | | |zu:7172713:594EHUG6\}\{ | Feng, et al., 1996 | | |zu:7172713:HZNSTJ2E\}\{ | Fay, et al., 1998 | | |zu:7172713:WBUWFY3W\}\{ | DeJesus-Hernandez, et al., 2011 | | |zu:7172713:YX65KB2Q\}\{ | Dickinson, et al., 2016 | | |zu:7172713:G6TT8Q8R\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_H::2>Mice<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-1060\sl288\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Most laboratory mice have }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://102664CF-7B19-432E-B1BF-4478959741F0"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 contributions}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  from both Mus musculus musculus and Mus }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item://c/Users/gctbr/Local/Resources/Scrivener/FTD-animals-review.scriv?id=BBEAB652-AB41-4A13-968C-69DDBBEC43F8"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 musculus domesticus}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . There is evidence that smaller contributions also may have come from }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BBB63DF9-41A9-41B5-8D40-9B746B60FB87"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mus musculus}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  molossinus and Mus musculus castaneus. }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9B407186-A45E-4781-AA91-89C2E4F23436"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Therefore}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , they should not be referred to by }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F6C236ED-A09E-483B-B08D-208A12CA16C2"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 species name}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , but rather as }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://practicaltypography.com/hard-page-breaks.html"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 laboratory mice}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or by use of a specific strain or stock name. (In addition, some recently developed laboratory mouse strains are derived wholly from other Mus species or other subspecies, such as M. spretus). \{\\Scrv_annot \\color=\{\\R=0.682353\\G=0.117647\\B=0.062745\} \\text=}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Nostros inline anotamonosss\\end_Scrv_annot\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mouse strain names should be registered through the Mouse Genome Database (MGD) at http://www.informatics.jax.org/mgihome/submissions/amsp_submission.cgi.}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-1060\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa160\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs26\b0\i0 <$Scr_Ps::2>I don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t think so<!$Scr_Ps::2>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx380\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri340\sa160\sb120\sl276\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_H::2>Rats<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-1060\sa160\sb120\sl288\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Laboratory rat strains derive from the Rattus norvegicus species. Another species, Rattus rattus, also is used as an experimental model, but has not contributed to the common laboratory rat strains.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Rat strain names should be registered through the Rat Genome Database (RGD) at http://rgd.mcw.edu/tools/strains/strainRegistrationIndex.cgi.}}