{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Mono;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \sa160\sb120\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0>}{\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB  nome(s) do(s) autor(es);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB  t\u237\'EDtulo principal do projeto: deve ser claro e preciso, apresentando o conte\u250\'FAdo do projeto e permitindo a indexa\u231\'E7\u227\'E3o e recupera\u231\'E7\u227\'E3o da informa\u231\'E7\u227\'E3o;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB  subt\u237\'EDtulo: (se houver, deve ser evidenciada a sua subordina\u231\'E7\u227\'E3o ao t\u237\'EDtulo, precedido de dois-pontos (:), ou distinguido tipograficamente);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB n\u250\'FAmero de volume: se houver mais de um, deve constar em cada capa a especifica\u231\'E7\u227\'E3o do respectivo volume;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB  tipo de projeto de pesquisa e nome da entidade a que deve ser submetido;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB nome do orientador, coorientador ou coordenador, se houver;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB  local (cidade da entidade onde deve ser apresentado);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u187\'BB  ano de dep\u243\'F3sito (entrega);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 NOTA: Se exigido pela entidade, devem ser apresentados dados curriculares do(s) autor(es) em folha(s) distinta(s) ap\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u243\'F3s a folha de rosto.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Construct title from keywords from all sections of the main text.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Use important keywords at the beginning of the title.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Avoid abbreviations and passive voice}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Revise every time the main text is revised}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Keywords: use MeSH instead of generic (see pubmed.com)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 66 (2013) 585)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 AUTHORS:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Discuss authorship and develop a written authorship document (including lead authorship) at an early stage during a project.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Check and follow ICMJE criteria on contributorship and authorship. (http://www.icmje.org/recommendations/browse/roles-and-responsibilities/defining-the-role-of-authors-and-contributors.html)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Authors should have}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 1) contributed substantially to the conception and design,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; }
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 2) contributed to writing the paper or revising it critically for}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 important intellectual content; and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 3) given final approval of the version to be published.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Ask coauthors to critically review and provide feedback with targeted questions and set them deadlines to respond.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Ask coauthors to meticulously check their names, initials, and affiliations before submitting.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 66 (2013) 1319)<!$Scr_Ps::0>}}