{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Text;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1200\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\f0\fs0\cf0\ftnbj\ftnnar\aftnnar
\sectd\sftnnar\saftnnar\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 I'm using Zotero with Better BibTex plugin as my reference manager, and have installed the zotpick applescript Application, which works fine.\line I compile my document to plain text.\line I've installed Pandoc and various filters (citeproc, fignos, eqnos etc), and have a simple Pandoc command that converts the plain text to PDF.\line \line I still have to get to grips with styles, but I've done quite a lot of webpage/css development so hope it is relatively straightforward.\line I have 2 things that I need to get working though: figures and equations. I'm a bit confused by the Scrivener/Pandoc images documentation. I've tried using 'Image linked from File', the image appears in the document but it doesn't appear in my PDF. How do I get it to appear in the PDF?\line \line For figures - I'm going to have a lot, this is a science PhD thesis, so the figures are the most important part. I'd like to have a link to an external file, so if I change them (they are produced using Python), the figure in the document is automatically updated. I also need to be able to reference them within the text, and have that reference update automatically if the order of figures changes (i.e. Fig 2 changes to Fig. 3). I can do this with LaTeX, can I do it in Scrivener? Also, can I edit the size of images using Markdown }}