{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Mono;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Sans;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Mono;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa80\sb120\sl276\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Figures (generic)<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Make a deliberate choice early in the writing process on which key findings to present in figures.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The title should reflect what is shown.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Ensure that figures are self-explanatory.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Do not repeat information from figures in the text but emphasize the important findings.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Design figures to make them clear and easy to read.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Start each figure on a new page, after the reference list.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 66 (2013) 1197)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 You can paste here your figures, just for reference.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 All scientific journals require submission of artwork separately, usually in formats such as TIFF, EPS, JPG and PDF. Color files must usually be in CMYK (cyan, magenta, yellow, black) mode (Use Photoshop to convert the color space)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 For Photographs and non-EPS graphs ensure that you save at least at 300 dpi resolution. Check a recent issue of your target journal for the usual size of figures.}
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa80\sb120\sl276\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Graphs<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Prepare the results and data of the study before drafting the graphs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The flow of the graphs should tell a logical story.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Choose the appropriate graph type to match the study data.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Design, provide legends and label the graphs carefully so that they are clear and easy to understand.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 WHEN TO PRESENT DATA IN GRAPHS:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Show trends and patterns in the data.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Paint an interesting picture and make a visual impact.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Reveal relations between variables in the data.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 COMMON ERRORS:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Information in the text is duplicated in graphs, or information in graphs is duplicated in tables.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The graph does not have proper legends.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The wrong type of graph is chosen to represent the data.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The graph is not plotted to scale. Data is not labelled,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 is inconsistent, interrupted, or exaggerated to produce the desired effect.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The source of previously-published data is not credited.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The misuse of pseudo three-dimensional graphs.}
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa80\sb120\sl276\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Images<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Illustrations provide visual information.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Effective illustrations improve the readability of a scientific paper as they make a visual impact.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Prepare legends and label illustrations clearly so that they are easy to understand.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Submit illustrations in a format that will provide high-quality reproduction.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 COMMON ERRORS:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Photographs show much more than the relevant parts, i.e. extraneous material.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Patients or subjects can be clearly identified in the photographs and images.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Authors\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 names and affiliations appear on the images.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Photographic/halftone figure scans are embedded in a Microsoft Word document, causing significant pixel resolution to be lost.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Annotations on the figures are too small or are illegible.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Singapore Med J. 2009;50(3):245-249. \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  Singapore Med J. 2009;50(4):330-4; quiz 335.)}}