{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFUI-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb180\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 - introdu\'e7\'e3o e base te\'f3rica\
- m\'e9todos\
- resultados esperados\
- palavras-chave\
\uc0\u8232 
\fs20 \'95 Construct abstract from keywords from all sections of the main text.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sb120\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs34 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 \'95 Avoid abbreviations and passive voice.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Always state the objective and start the results section with the answer to the research question.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Give sample size if you report percentages.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Present effect sizes with confidence intervals.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Check if the abstract covers the 4 Ws:
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Background: What is known and why is this study needed? 
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Methods: What did you do?
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Results: What did you find?
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Discussion: What does it mean?
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Check that the abstract can be read independently from the main text.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Revise every time the main text is revised.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \'95 Conform to the set word limit.
\fs24 \

\fs20 (Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 66 (2013) 585)
\fs24 \

\fs20 Write the abstract once you have completed the paper to avoid mismatches.
\fs24 \

\fs20 \
The abstract should summarize your research in clear and concise language. You should write your abstract with the idea that it may be the only section that will actually be read and the sole representation of your research. 
\fs24 \

\fs20 Some primary factors that you should consider for the abstract:
\fs24 \

\fs20 Motivation: Why do we care?
\fs24 \

\fs20 Problem statement: What are you trying to address?
\fs24 \

\fs20 Approach: How will you address the problem?
\fs24 \

\fs20 Results: What is the answer or expected answer?
\fs24 \

\fs20 Conclusions: What are the implications?
\f1\fs34 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}