{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Text;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Text;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\f0\fs24\cf0\ftnbj\ftnnar\aftnnar
\sectd\sftnnar\saftnnar\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 To publish in frontiers in neurology: you need a translational perspective if working with animal models}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Reviewing abstracts for quality and relevance to the Topic\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Review:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 350 words}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 15 fig + tables}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 12'000 words}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa60\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs20\b1\i0 <$Scr_H::5>2.3.1.10. Abstract<!$Scr_H::5>}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 GUIDELINES (MAX. LIMITS)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abstract length:\~1000 words}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As a primary goal, the abstract should render the general significance and conceptual advance of the work clearly accessible to a broad readership. In the abstract, minimize the use of abbreviations and do not cite references. The text of the abstract section should be in 12 point normal Times New Roman. See Summary Table for abstract requirement and length according to article type.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For Clinical Trial article types, please include the Unique Identifier and the URL of the publicly accessible website on which the trial is registered.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Experimental models of Frontotemporal Dementia-ALS spectrum disorder: a translational approach\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Experimental design for preclinical translational research should include consideration of the genetic backgrounds, diets, bioburden, and other environmental impacts on the selected model, and early implementation of pathology to optimize specimens for analysis, and the contributions of pathology to research success.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mice phenotypes databases:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://phenome.jax.org/"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mouse Phenome Database based at the Jackson Laboratory}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.mousephenotype.org/"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 IMPC International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Phenotyping strategies}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : in vivo evaluations, imaging strategies, molecular evaluations (microarray, proteomics, metabolomics etc), and clinical and anatomic pathology.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Motor: }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 rotarod, swim test, tail hang (graps limbs), }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Phenotyping variables:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 In vivo }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 phenotypes manifest at different ages, change over time, may be induced to appear or disappear, or expected phenotypes may not be evident, eye and coat color, subjective evaluation of morphology/dysmorphology, body condition, activity, and behavior; body weights for growth curves), to behavioral, metabolic, physiologic, or imaging assessments that require substantial equipment investments, to diet manipulations, and invasive interventions}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Pathology }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 might be key to assess similarities and differences between model and control}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Phenotype descriptors: }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 clinical/behavioural phenotype; gross pathological (morphological) findings; histopathology findings; genetic determinism (nature); environmental conditions (nurture)}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Consider these for project}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. What Mice do you use? Why were these selected?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. Where do they come from? Why did you select this source?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. What are complete names of experimental and control mice, including substrain and origin?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. Do your experimental and control mice live together? In the same cages (e.g. littermates)? In the same rooms? In the same facilities?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5. What is their microbial status? and surveillance program?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6. What do they eat? Brand and type? Percent and type of protein? Percent and type of fat? How is it monitored for contaminants?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 7. What do they sleep on (what type of bedding)? Paper? Wood?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 8. Do you provide enrichment material or devices? Why or Why not?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 9. What do they drink? Auto? Bottle? pH? Chlorine levels? How is it monitored for contaminants?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 10. What is their light cycle? Why?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 11. What are environmental noise levels and ranges? Does it matter to your study?}}