{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red133\green12\blue1;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 There are two ways of getting your work out of Scrivener:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 Exporting and Printing Individual Documents\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 You can export or print any individual document in Scrivener by tapping the \'93share\'94 icon that appears in the toolbar beneath the editor (when you\'92re not editing). Alternatively, you can swipe left in a row in the binder and tap 
\f1\b \cf2 More
\f0\b0 \cf0  to access the same export options. You can export text documents to the following formats:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li560\fi-560\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95	Word (.docx). Word documents can also be opened by Pages.\
\'95	Rich text (.rtf). RTF documents can be opened by a wide variety of desktop word processors, although there is not yet much support for it among other iOS apps.\
\'95	PDF format.\
\'95	Plain text (.txt).\
\'95	Final Draft (.fdx). This format is only available if scriptwriting features are turned on via the project settings.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Non-text documents such as images are exported using their original format. You can then choose whether to share documents via Mail, Messages or another app, to open them in another app directly, or to print text documents.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 Compiling Your Draft\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 One of the key concepts of Scrivener is that you work on your manuscript in pieces as small or large as you want, but this wouldn\'92t be of much use if you couldn\'92t put Humpty together again. As already covered, the \'93Draft\'94 folder is where you write your manuscript. When you\'92re ready to export or print your entire draft, you need to \'93compile\'94 it. Compiling doesn\'92t affect the original documents\'97they all stay as they were in the Draft folder\'97it merely combines them into a new text that is used purely for exporting or printing.\
To compile, do one of the following:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li560\fi-560\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95	Tap the \'93share\'94 icon in the toolbar below the editor when viewing a text document stored inside the Draft folder, and choose 
\f1\b \cf2 Compile Draft
\f0\b0 \cf0  from the menu that appears.\
\'95	Tap the compile icon (two pieces of paper with an arrow pointing up) that appears in the toolbar below the binder.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Upon so doing, you will be presented with an options screen. Here you can choose the export file format (Word, RTF, PDF, plain text or FDX), along with certain other options. Once you\'92ve selected the options you want, simply tap 
\f1\b \cf2 Compile
\f0\b0 \cf0  and wait for the compiled text to be generated. At the end of this process, you\'92ll see a new screen that shows a preview of how your text will look if you print it, along with a word and character count for the entire Draft\'97making this a great way to find the total word count for your manuscript. You can now choose to 
\f1\b \cf2 Share
\f0\b0 \cf0  the document, which allows you to send it via Mail or Messages (or to print it), or to 
\f1\b \cf2 Open In
\f0\b0 \cf0 , which allows you to send the document to any applications that support the selected export format.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 Appearances
\f0\b0\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0
\cf0 One of the most powerful aspects of Compile is the \'93Appearance\'94 setting. This allows you to choose a preset that can completely transform the appearance of your document. For instance, the \'93Manuscript (Courier)\'94 appearance will convert all of the text to a Courier 12-point font with italics converted to underlines, with folder titles included and centred and hash (#) symbols inserted between each text document. Choosing \'93Default\'94 for \'93Appearance\'94, on the other hand, compiles your text so that it looks exactly as it does in the editor, with no formatting changes.\
Five Appearance presets are provided by default, but you can create your own right inside Scrivener by hitting 
\f1\b \cf2 Edit
\f0\b0 \cf0  in the Appearance selection screen and duplicating one of the existing Appearance presets or adding a new one.\
Tapping the \'93i\'94 button next to an Appearance preset in \'93Edit\'94 mode allows you to edit the preset. (You can only edit custom Appearances, however, and not the built-in ones, so try duplicating a preset to test this.). Appearance presets in Scrivener for iOS are created using the YAML format, which is a markup language designed to be easily read by humans. When viewing the Appearance editor, tap the icon of the help ring in the navigation bar to view instructions on how to create your own Appearance presets\'97there you will find a complete list  of the commands available. But, for instance, suppose you created an Appearance preset containing only the following:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\pardeftab720\li720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf0 Font Family: Cochin\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 This preset would do nothing more than change the font throughout your compiled document to Cochin.\
Whether you use Appearances or not is entirely up to you. They allow you to create fully-formatted documents for different purposes without having to worry about how the text is formatted in the editor (for the most part, at least). But you could equally compile your text without using an Appearance preset and do all of the final formatting in a word processor (assuming you need to do any final formatting at all\'97if everything is already formatted as you want it in Scrivener\'92s editor, then there\'92s no need to apply an Appearance preset or to change anything in an external word processor, of course).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb260\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf0 Tip
\f0\i0 : Some of the provided presets, such as the Manuscript and Book ones, have tips inside them on how to edit them to suit different project structures. Try duplicating \'93Manuscript (Times)\'94, for instance, and then editing it by tapping on the \'93i\'94 in the duplicate\'92s row. There you will find information on how to add automatic chapter and part numbering.\
Next, on to \'93Working with Projects\'94.}