{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SourceSerifPro-Regular;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Text;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Sitka Text;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SourceSerifPro-Bold;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa80\sb120\sl276\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Decide article type<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The specialty sections of Frontiers in Neurology welcome submission of the following\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/neurology#article-types"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 article types}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 : Brief Research Report, Case Report, Clinical Trial, Correction, Editorial, Hypothesis and Theory, Methods, Mini Review, Opinion, Original Research, Perspective, Review, Study Protocol, Systematic Review, Classification, Policy and Practice Reviews, Specialty Grand Challenge, Technology and Code, Community Case Study, Data Report and Erratum.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 When submitting a manuscript to Frontiers in Neurology, authors must submit the material directly to one of the specialty sections. Manuscripts are peer-reviewed by the Associate and Review Editors of the respective specialty section.}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 To publish in frontiers in neurology: you need a translational perspective if working with animal models}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Reviewing abstracts for quality and relevance to the Topic\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Review:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 350 words}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 15 fig + tables}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 12'000 words}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u65532\'3F}
\par\pard\plain \sa60\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs20\b1\i0 <$Scr_H::5>2.3.1.10. Abstract<!$Scr_H::5>}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b1\i0 GUIDELINES (MAX. LIMITS)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abstract length:\~1000 words}
\par\pard\plain \fi380\sl288\slmult1\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As a primary goal, the abstract should render the general significance and conceptual advance of the work clearly accessible to a broad readership. In the abstract, minimize the use of abbreviations and do not cite references. The text of the abstract section should be in 12 point normal Times New Roman. See Summary Table for abstract requirement and length according to article type.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For Clinical Trial article types, please include the Unique Identifier and the URL of the publicly accessible website on which the trial is registered. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Experimental models of Frontotemporal Dementia-ALS spectrum disorder: a translational approach\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Experimental design for preclinical translational research should include consideration of the genetic backgrounds, diets, bioburden, and other environmental impacts on the selected model, and early implementation of pathology to optimize specimens for analysis, and the contributions of pathology to research success.}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0}