{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 IBM Plex Mono;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs20\cf0\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \tx562\tx1123\tx1685\tx2246\tx2808\tx3370\tx3931\tx4493\tx5054\tx5616\tx6178\tx6739\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The introduction section (in some journals this section is called \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93background\u8221\'94) lays the foundation for the paper. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  Some authors write long, heavily referenced introductions, but most authors save the heavy detail and description of previous related research for the discussion section. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 \bullet  The classic introduction is 2 or 3 paragraphs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 (Respir Care 2004 (49) 10 1222-1228)}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\bullet  The first paragraph provides the background information, with a few seminal references. }
\par\plain {\bullet  It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s not necessary to introduce every paper on the topic in the introduction. }
\par\plain {\bullet  Mention the most important references and state the research problem. }
\par\plain {(Respir Care 2004 (49) 10 1222-1228)}
\par\plain {\line }
\par\plain {\bullet  Use recent and most contributive references, preferably from the journal to which you are submitting your manuscript.}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Apresentar aos leitores o tema e os conceitos necess\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u225\'E1rios para entenderem o projeto; Convencer que o projeto \u233\'E9 relevante, que est\u225\'E1 bem planejado, que eu sou capaz de executar;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 \line }{\f0\fs20 \bullet  Check if the introduction has a funnel shape with clear sections on}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb120\sl276\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20 <$Scr_Ps::0>\tab - general background (what is this all about?);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 \tab - what is known and what is unknown about this specific subject (why was this study needed, and why is it important?);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 \tab - primary research question (what did we want to know?); and }
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 \tab - study aim and design (what did we do to answer the research question?).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 \bullet  Look at the length of the introduction (maximum 10~15% of the total word count).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 \bullet  Determine if the introduction is the start of the story line of your paper by looking at your outline (skeleton).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 \bullet  Ask yourself, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Will this introduction sell my paper to editors, reviewers, readers, and the media?\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 (Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 66 (2013) 702)<!$Scr_Ps::0>}}